# RS-232

- Serial protocol.
	+ Data transmitted bit by bit over a bus/cable.
	+ As opposed to parallel, in which a word/byte is sent every cycle.
		* Note: the fact that serial eventually won over parallel protocol is explained the adoption of ever higher frequencies.
		* With high frequencies come the problem of:
			- Crosstalk (interference between signals), and
			- Variability of signal transit time in all signal lines: as we go higher, tiny differences between transit times matter more and more, as the receiver must wait that all signal lines are settled.

Therefore, in serial com, each endpoint has:
- Receive line.
- Transmit line.

Modes of data transfer:
- Async
	+ No clock pulse.
	* Which is why it uses stop bit(s).


Parameters
- Baud rate
	+ Speed of transmission.
	+ Bits / second
- Stop Bits
	* DBG: Why does it matter to have multiple stop bit?
		* Maybe related to lower receiver UART performance.
	+ Values: 1, 1.5, 2
- Parity Bit
	+ Error checking per packet.
	+ Values: Even, Odd, Marked, Spaced.


- DTE: data transmission equipment
	+ Terminal/computer.
- DCE: 
	* Data communication equipement.
	+ Device between a DTE and a DTC (?).
	+ Modem.

- DTE <= Straight => DCE
- DTE <= Cross-over => DTE
	* Crosser <=> Null-Modem

Pins
- TXD: (3) transmitter
- RXD: (2) receiver
- RTS: (7) request to send
- CTS: (8) clear to send
- GND: (5) Ground

With a DTE (DB9):
- TXD (3) is used to send.
- RXD (2) is used to receive.

With a DCE (DB9): 
- TXD (3) is used to receive.
- RXD (2) is used to send.

Kioke (DCE) PINs (DB9):
- 3: Receive from external.
- 2: Transmit to external.
- 5: Ground.

FANUC Laser PINs (DB25)
- 1: Receive data
- 11: Send data 