---
date: 2018-08-17
title: 3D
menu:
    sidebar:
        parent: Tech
---


## Blu-ray Disc (BD)

+ Conventional BD = 25 GB per layer
+ Dual layer (50 GB, standard)
+ Triple layer (100 GB)
+ Quadruple (128 GB, BD-XL rewriter drives)





## 3D

- Passive or Active 3D is an output format (TV output).
- SideBySide, top-bottom or any other format is an input format (video file).
- If you play from blu-ray disc, the input format is usually HDMI 1.4 interlaced,
  meaning you get full resolution 2x 1920x1080.


### Types
- Active
    + Active Shutter Glasses
    + Shut vision of one eye at a time
    + HD images for both eyes
- Passive
    + Polarized glasses
    + One eye sees half the lines
    + Lower resolution



### Formats
- Side By Side 
    + Widly supported.
        - Both active and passive 3D HDTVs support it.
    + Offers great compatibility 
    as 3D content can be fitted in a single 2D frame 
    with standard resolution and thus transmitted 
    over existing 2D infrastructure, 
    though with some loss in detail and sharpness of the image.
- HDMI 1.4
    + HDMI is an industry standard.
    + In order to take advantage 
    of transmission of 3D content using the frame packaging method 
    defined in that standard you need a compatible output device, 
    cable and input device that supports HDMI 1.4. 
    In your case this means a video card, cable and a 3D HDTV set.



Side-by-side 3D results in a halving of the horizontal resolution 
of each frame intended for the left and right eye. 
When the 3D ready TV receives this side-by-side 3D signal, 
it splits each frame to extract the frame for each eye, 
and then rescales these individual frames to a full HD resolution using upscaling algorithms. 
It then displays these upscaled individual frames alternately 
in a frame-sequential manner (see the second image below) 
that is in sync with your active shutter 3D glasses.
